#421: construct desktop RootComponent on the Swing EDT (#525)
khmelevartem/tether: .claude/skills/smoke-test/SKILL.md

FAIL → all remaining blocks SKIP with reason "cli jar build failed".

### Block 1: Desktop UI startup

Run: `./block-1-desktop-ui-startup.sh`

Launches `./gradlew :composeApp:run` (the Compose UI, not the CLI fat-jar), polls the startup
log for the FileServer/HealthMonitor startup markers, then asserts the log carries no
stack-trace-shaped output. This is a secondary, coarse, end-to-end guard through the real launch
path — it does not open a FIFO, does not exercise send/discovery, and it complements the

> desktopTest regression test for main-thread construction violations (#421), which is the primary,
> fast guard. This block catches that whole class of startup exception, not only #421's specific
> one. Unrelated to the "don't use `:composeApp:run`" rule under "What NOT to do" below (that rule
> is scoped to CLI-functional testing). Independent of the CLI jar and any CLI instance — needs
> only Block 0.

Author: ```suggestion
Launches `./gradlew :composeApp:run` (the Compose UI, not the CLI fat-jar), polls the startup
log for the FileServer/HealthMonitor startup markers, then asserts the log carries no
stack-trace-shaped output. Unrelated to the "don't use `:composeApp:run`" rule under "What NOT to do" below (that rule
is scoped to CLI-functional testing). Independent of the CLI jar and any CLI instance — needs
only Block 0.
```
